docs/DEVGUIDE.md, before:

# Developer's Guide to Service-Catalog

## Prerequisites

At a minimum you will need:
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed locally
* GNU Make
* [git](https://git-scm.com)

These will allow you to build and test using Docker.

If you want to build without Docker, then you will also need:
* [Go](https://golang.org) set up locally (with proper `$GOPATH`
  and (optionally) `$GOPATH/bin` in your local `PATH`)
* [Glide](https://github.com/masterminds/glide) v0.12.3 or higher installed
  and on your `PATH`
* Working Kubernetes cluster and `kubectl` installed in your local `PATH`.
  The version of Kubernetes and `kubectl` must be >= 1.4
* [Helm](https://helm.sh) installed in your Kubernetes cluster,
  and the `helm` binary in your `PATH`
* Cluster credentials in ./kubeconfig file

Additionally, if you intend to push Docker images to a registry:
* Must be pre-authenticated to the Docker registry you intend to use

## Cloning the Repo

The Service Catalog github repository can be found
[here](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/service-catalog.git).

To clone the repository:
    # If you have Go installed and want to build w/o Docker, first:
    mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/kubernetes-incubator
    cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/kubernetes-incubator

    # Now let's clone it:
    git clone https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/service-catalog.git

## Building

First `cd` to the root of the cloned repository tree.
To build the service-catalog you have two options:
* `make build`
* `DOCKER=1 make build`

Both will build all of the executables, into the `bin` directory. However,
the second option will do the build within a Docker container - meaning you
do not need to have all of the necessary tooling installed on your host
(such as a golang compiler or glide). Whichever option you choose, the
results should be the same.

Note, this will do the basic build of the service catalog. There are more
more [advanced build steps](#advanced_build_steps) below as well.

To deploy to Kubernetes, see the
[Deploying to Kubernetes](#deploying_to_kubernetes) section.

### Notes Concerning the Build Process/Makefile

* The Makefile assumes you're running `make` from the root of the repo.
* There are some source files that are generated during the build process.
  These will be prefixed with `zz`.
* When building with Docker, a Docker Image called "scbuildimage" will be used.
* While many people have utilities, such as editor hooks, that auto-format
  their go source files with `gofmt`, there is a Makefile target called
  `format` which can be used to do this task for you.
* The `build-darwin` and `build-linux` Makefile targets can be used to
  build those respective platform specific executables. The output binaries
  are placed in the `bin/darwin_amd64` or `bin/linux_amd64` directories.
  By default, `make build` will build the current system's os/arch's
  binaries.

## Testing

Currently, we only have unit testcases within this repo:
* `make test`
* `DOCKER=1 make test`

These will execute any `*_test.go` files within the source tree.

To see how well these tests cover the source code, you can use:
* `make coverage`
* `DOCKER=1 make coverage`

These will execute the tests and perform an analysis of how well they
cover all code paths. The results are put into a file called:
`coverage.html` at the root of the repo.

## Advanced Build Steps

You can build the service catalog executables into Docker images and push
them to a Docker Registry so they can be accessed by your Kubernetes clusters:

    export VERSION=$(git rev-parse --short --verify HEAD)
    # Registry URL is the portion up to, but excluding the image name and its
    # preceding slash, e.g., "gcr.io/my-repo", "my-docker-id"
    export REGISTRY=<registry URL>

    make images push

This will build Docker images for the service controller, Kubernetes service
broker, and service classes registry. The images are also pushed to the
registry specified by the `REGISTRY` environment variable, so they
can be accessed by your Kubernetes cluster.

The images are tagged with the current Git commit SHA: `docker images`.

## Deploying to Kubernetes

**NOTE**: The following instructions assume everything is run on the host.
The instructions for doing the following via Docker is still a
work-in-progress.

**NOTE**: Do not forget to specify a Kubernetes namespace where the system will
be deployed. Here, we will use `catalog`.

Use Helm to create the Kubernetes deployments:

    helm install \
        --set "registry=${REGISTRY},version=${VERSION}" \
        --namespace catalog \
        ./deploy/catalog

After the deployment, observe the deployments and services:

    kubectl get deployments,services --namespace catalog

### Walkthrough

Now that the system has been deployed to our Kubernetes cluster, multiple
new Kubernetes resources were registered. Service brokers, classes, instances,
and bindings. These resources are building blocks for composing services.

Because we didn't create any services yet, `kubectl get` will return an empty
list:

    kubectl get servicebrokers,serviceclasses,serviceinstances,servicebindings

**NOTE**: If there are any resouces, for example left over from an earlier
walkthrough, you can delete them using `script/cleanup.sh`.

Now we are ready to use service catalog. First, register service broker with the
catalog:

    cd contrib/examples/walkthrough/

    kubectl create -f broker.yaml

Confirm that service types are now available for instantiation:

    kubectl get serviceclasses

This will output available service types, for example:

    NAME               LABELS    DATA
    booksbe            <none>    {"apiVersion":"...

We can now create instances of these service classes and connect them
using bindings:

    # Create backend (MySQL) instance.
    kubectl create -f backend.yaml

    # Create binding called 'database'.
    kubectl create -f binding.yaml

Creating the binding will create a `ConfigMap` for binding consumption. This
can now be used by a native kubernetes app. You can inspect the config map
using `kubectl get configmap database`:

    NAME       DATA      AGE
    database   4         55s

Now you can deploy the application that consumes the binding.

    kubectl create -f ../user-bookstore-client/bookstore.yaml

This will create a Kubernetes service `user-bookstore-fe`. Wait for deployments
to start and an IP address of the frontend to be assigned. You can monitor the
external IP address creation using `kubectl get services`:

    NAME                    CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)    AGE
    cf-i-3a121d22-booksbe   10.107.254.221   <none>            3306/TCP   2m
    user-bookstore-fe       10.107.254.221   **<pending>**         3306/TCP   2m
    kubernetes              10.107.240.1     <none>            443/TCP    1d

Once the IP address becomes available we can use it to contact the frontend
endpoint. In this example, the IP address is `104.154.153.120`.

Save the IP address in an environment variable:

    IP=104.154.153.120

And interact with the Bookstore API:

    # List shelves
    curl "http://${IP}:8080/shelves"

    # List a specific shelf
    curl "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/1"

    # Create a new shelf
    curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
         -H 'x-api-key: 123' \
          -d '{ "theme": "Travel" }' \
          "http://${IP}:8080/shelves"

    # Create a book on the shelf:
    curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
         -H 'x-api-key: 123' \
         -d '{ "author": "Rick Steves", "title": "Travel as a Political Act" }' \
         "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/3/books"

    # List the books on the travel shelf:
    curl -H 'x-api-key: 123' "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/3/books"

    # Get the book:
    curl -H 'x-api-key: 123' "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/3/books/3"

### Consume a user-provided service

**NOTE**: This demo requires that you have cleaned up the resources created in
the previous demo, specifically the binding and frontend.

User-provided services are external services which need to be consumed by
Kubernetes applications through bindings.

Create a Kubernetes deployment. Even though this deployment is hosted in the
Kubernetes cluster, for the walkthrough it assumes the role of an external,
user-provided service:

    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/user-bookstore-mysql/bookstore.yaml

Create a User-provided Service instance to make your service bindable. You will
need to specify the hostname (either the service name from above or the IP
address of the service), port, username, and password.

    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/walkthrough/ups-backend.yaml

Now you can use the same steps as above to create a binding and a consuming
service.

    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/walkthrough/frontend.yaml
    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/walkthrough/binding.yaml

Commit message:

Build for linux/amd64 only

docs/DEVGUIDE.md, after:

# Developer's Guide to Service-Catalog

## Prerequisites

At a minimum you will need:
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed locally
* GNU Make
* [git](https://git-scm.com)

These will allow you to build and test using Docker.

If you want to build without Docker, then you will also need:
* [Go](https://golang.org) set up locally (with proper `$GOPATH`
  and (optionally) `$GOPATH/bin` in your local `PATH`)
* [Glide](https://github.com/masterminds/glide) v0.12.3 or higher installed
  and on your `PATH`
* Working Kubernetes cluster and `kubectl` installed in your local `PATH`.
  The version of Kubernetes and `kubectl` must be >= 1.4
* [Helm](https://helm.sh) installed in your Kubernetes cluster,
  and the `helm` binary in your `PATH`
* Cluster credentials in ./kubeconfig file

Additionally, if you intend to push Docker images to a registry:
* Must be pre-authenticated to the Docker registry you intend to use

**Note:** It is not generally useful to run service catalog components outside
a Kubernetes cluster. As such, our build processes only support compilation of
linux/amd64 binaries suitable for execution within a Docker container.

## Cloning the Repo

The Service Catalog github repository can be found
[here](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/service-catalog.git).

To clone the repository:
    # If you have Go installed and want to build w/o Docker, first:
    mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/kubernetes-incubator
    cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/kubernetes-incubator

    # Now let's clone it:
    git clone https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/service-catalog.git

## Building

First `cd` to the root of the cloned repository tree.
To build the service-catalog you have two options:
* `make build`
* `DOCKER=1 make build`

Both will build all of the executables, into the `bin` directory. However,
the second option will do the build within a Docker container - meaning you
do not need to have all of the necessary tooling installed on your host
(such as a golang compiler or glide). Whichever option you choose, the
results should be the same.

Note, this will do the basic build of the service catalog. There are more
more [advanced build steps](#advanced_build_steps) below as well.

To deploy to Kubernetes, see the
[Deploying to Kubernetes](#deploying_to_kubernetes) section.

### Notes Concerning the Build Process/Makefile

* The Makefile assumes you're running `make` from the root of the repo.
* There are some source files that are generated during the build process.
  These will be prefixed with `zz`.
* When building with Docker, a Docker Image called "scbuildimage" will be used.
* While many people have utilities, such as editor hooks, that auto-format
  their go source files with `gofmt`, there is a Makefile target called
  `format` which can be used to do this task for you.
* `make build` will build binaries for linux/amd64 only.

## Testing

Currently, we only have unit testcases within this repo:
* `make test`
* `DOCKER=1 make test`

These will execute any `*_test.go` files within the source tree.

To see how well these tests cover the source code, you can use:
* `make coverage`
* `DOCKER=1 make coverage`

These will execute the tests and perform an analysis of how well they
cover all code paths. The results are put into a file called:
`coverage.html` at the root of the repo.

## Advanced Build Steps

You can build the service catalog executables into Docker images and push
them to a Docker Registry so they can be accessed by your Kubernetes clusters:

    export VERSION=$(git rev-parse --short --verify HEAD)
    # Registry URL is the portion up to, but excluding the image name and its
    # preceding slash, e.g., "gcr.io/my-repo", "my-docker-id"
    export REGISTRY=<registry URL>

    make images push

This will build Docker images for the service controller, Kubernetes service
broker, and service classes registry. The images are also pushed to the
registry specified by the `REGISTRY` environment variable, so they
can be accessed by your Kubernetes cluster.

The images are tagged with the current Git commit SHA: `docker images`.

## Deploying to Kubernetes

**NOTE**: The following instructions assume everything is run on the host.
The instructions for doing the following via Docker is still a
work-in-progress.

**NOTE**: Do not forget to specify a Kubernetes namespace where the system will
be deployed. Here, we will use `catalog`.

Use Helm to create the Kubernetes deployments:

    helm install \
        --set "registry=${REGISTRY},version=${VERSION}" \
        --namespace catalog \
        ./deploy/catalog

After the deployment, observe the deployments and services:

    kubectl get deployments,services --namespace catalog

### Walkthrough

Now that the system has been deployed to our Kubernetes cluster, multiple
new Kubernetes resources were registered. Service brokers, classes, instances,
and bindings. These resources are building blocks for composing services.

Because we didn't create any services yet, `kubectl get` will return an empty
list:

    kubectl get servicebrokers,serviceclasses,serviceinstances,servicebindings

**NOTE**: If there are any resouces, for example left over from an earlier
walkthrough, you can delete them using `script/cleanup.sh`.

Now we are ready to use service catalog. First, register service broker with the
catalog:

    cd contrib/examples/walkthrough/

    kubectl create -f broker.yaml

Confirm that service types are now available for instantiation:

    kubectl get serviceclasses

This will output available service types, for example:

    NAME               LABELS    DATA
    booksbe            <none>    {"apiVersion":"...

We can now create instances of these service classes and connect them
using bindings:

    # Create backend (MySQL) instance.
    kubectl create -f backend.yaml

    # Create binding called 'database'.
    kubectl create -f binding.yaml

Creating the binding will create a `ConfigMap` for binding consumption. This
can now be used by a native kubernetes app. You can inspect the config map
using `kubectl get configmap database`:

    NAME       DATA      AGE
    database   4         55s

Now you can deploy the application that consumes the binding.

    kubectl create -f ../user-bookstore-client/bookstore.yaml

This will create a Kubernetes service `user-bookstore-fe`. Wait for deployments
to start and an IP address of the frontend to be assigned. You can monitor the
external IP address creation using `kubectl get services`:

    NAME                    CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)    AGE
    cf-i-3a121d22-booksbe   10.107.254.221   <none>            3306/TCP   2m
    user-bookstore-fe       10.107.254.221   **<pending>**         3306/TCP   2m
    kubernetes              10.107.240.1     <none>            443/TCP    1d

Once the IP address becomes available we can use it to contact the frontend
endpoint. In this example, the IP address is `104.154.153.120`.

Save the IP address in an environment variable:

    IP=104.154.153.120

And interact with the Bookstore API:

    # List shelves
    curl "http://${IP}:8080/shelves"

    # List a specific shelf
    curl "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/1"

    # Create a new shelf
    curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
         -H 'x-api-key: 123' \
          -d '{ "theme": "Travel" }' \
          "http://${IP}:8080/shelves"

    # Create a book on the shelf:
    curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
         -H 'x-api-key: 123' \
         -d '{ "author": "Rick Steves", "title": "Travel as a Political Act" }' \
         "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/3/books"

    # List the books on the travel shelf:
    curl -H 'x-api-key: 123' "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/3/books"

    # Get the book:
    curl -H 'x-api-key: 123' "http://${IP}:8080/shelves/3/books/3"

### Consume a user-provided service

**NOTE**: This demo requires that you have cleaned up the resources created in
the previous demo, specifically the binding and frontend.

User-provided services are external services which need to be consumed by
Kubernetes applications through bindings.

Create a Kubernetes deployment. Even though this deployment is hosted in the
Kubernetes cluster, for the walkthrough it assumes the role of an external,
user-provided service:

    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/user-bookstore-mysql/bookstore.yaml

Create a User-provided Service instance to make your service bindable. You will
need to specify the hostname (either the service name from above or the IP
address of the service), port, username, and password.

    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/walkthrough/ups-backend.yaml

Now you can use the same steps as above to create a binding and a consuming
service.

    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/walkthrough/frontend.yaml
    kubectl create -f contrib/examples/walkthrough/binding.yaml
